chore: release branch for TimescaleDB v2.18.0. (#3764)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/hypercore/real-time-analytics-in-hypercore.md

---
title: Optimize data for real-time analytics with Hypercore
excerpt: Reduce your chunk size by more than 90% and speed up your queries by automatically converting data between the rowstore and columnstore.
products: [cloud,]
keywords: [hyperscore, hypertable, compression, row-columnar storage, hypercore]
---

import PrereqCloud from "versionContent/_partials/_prereqs-cloud-only.mdx";
import HCConversionOverview from "versionContent/_partials/_hypercore-conversion-overview.mdx";
import HCPolicyWorkflow from "versionContent/_partials/_hypercore_policy_workflow.mdx";
import UsageBasedStorage from "versionContent/_partials/_usage-based-storage-intro.mdx";
import EarlyAccess from "versionContent/_partials/_early_access.mdx";

# Prepare your data for real-time analytics in Hypercore 

Hypercore is the Timescale hybrid row-columnar storage engine. The rowstore contains row-oriented tables optimized

>  for high-speed inserts and updates. The columnstore is a column-oriented storage format optimized for analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hypercore is the Timescale hybrid row-columnar storage engine used by Hypertables. Hypertables partition your data in chunks. Chunks stored in the rowstore use a row-oriented data format optimized for high-speed inserts and updates. Chunks stored in the columnstore use a columnar data format optimized for analytics.
```

You ingest `hot` data into the rowstore. As data cools and becomes more suited for analytics, 
$CLOUD_LONG automatically converts these chunks of data to the columnstore. You define the moment when data is converted 
using a columnstore policy.

<HCConversionOverview />

> <UsageBasedStorage />

Reviewer: This again feels a bit out of place.

In most modern databases you pay for the storage you consume. This is just a differentiator against RDS. I don't think we need to call that out all the time. And if we do, we should not talk about growing the disk automatically but the important piece would be that when you reduce the storage size you immediately realize the savings.

Author: Done

<EarlyAccess /> Indexes are a central component to designing efficient and performant databases: they allow 
unstructured data to be searched in efficiently executed queries. TimescaleDB supplies the `hypercore` table access 

> method that enables chunks in a hypertable to maintain indexes over data in the rowstore and the columnstore.

Reviewer: I don't think this belongs in here. We have other multiple indexes that help with performance that we are not calling out here. I would keep all information about indexes in its own section.

Author: Done
